As the old saying goes, give a man a
fish, feed him for a day. Teach a man to
fish, feed him for life. And in most
episodes on this channel, I am trying to
teach you to fish. Sometimes it's nice
to just be handed a fish. And so, in
today's episode, I'm going to share with
you 16 viral Instagram reel ideas that
you can use to increase your views, your
engagement, and even make more sales in
the process. In case you've never met
before, hello, my name is Brock Johnson,
and it is my full-time job to geek out
over the Instagram algorithm and help
small business owners, brands, and
content creators grow on Instagram. So,
if you want to grow your brand, small
business, or your content creation
journey on Instagram, consider hitting
that subscribe button because every
single week I'm putting out a helpful
episode just like the one you're
watching right now. But, let's not mince
words. The first viral idea that I have
for you is called the infinite iPhone
zoom hook swap. And that's a mouthful.
This idea uses a strategy that's going
to come up a few times today called a
hook swap. And a hook swap is
essentially taking a pre-existing viral
video, or even just a clip from a
pre-existing viral video, and seamlessly
transitioning into your own content. The
key element in a hook swap, in order to
make it seamless, is to use what's
called a match cut. A match cut
basically means that the motion or the
object at the end of the first clip
matches the motion or the object at the
beginning of the second clip.
Fortunately, the match cut necessary for
this iPhone zoom hook is pretty much as
easy as they come. The video begins with
the text on the screen saying something
along the lines of "This iPhone zoom is
crazy." And at first, it looks like the
iPhone is just zooming in. But then, as
the video goes on and on, we're at a
molecular level. And of course, there's
no phone that can actually zoom in that
far, but it kind of puts you in a
trance. And it's like, "What is going
on?" And it creates curiosity to keep
watching because you know that this
isn't really how far the iPhone zooms,
but you want to see how far is this
video actually going to zoom in?" And
then eventually, it zooms so far that
the entire screen goes black. That's
where you come in. You can either take
your hand off the camera or be standing
in a dark room or step out of a dark
room and that will make the effect look
like the zoom seamlessly transitioned
into the clip of you. Then you can use
the clip of you to teach a lesson, share
a topic, tell a story, whatever it is
you want. The second viral reel idea is
the scavenger hunt reel. Now, the
scavenger hunt reel starts with a main
block of text that people are meant to
read and it's telling them to read
somewhere else or it's using reverse
psychology telling them not to read
somewhere else. So it might say, "Don't
look in the upper right corner." And
then of course when they look in the
upper right corner, there's another
message and it might say, "Don't read
the caption." And then they read the
caption and the caption says, "Don't
read the pinned comment." And it's kind
of like a scavenger hunt. They want to
see where this is going. But the added
layer that I'm going to recommend you
include in your scavenger hunt reel is
what I call the tape measurer reveal.
Essentially, you put a tape measurer on
the ground, you extend it very far and
then you put a sticky note on the far
end of the tape measurer. Then you set
up your phone or camera right behind the
tape measurer itself and you record
yourself running from the far end of the
tape measurer up to the actual block,
the actual body of the tape measurer and
then you retract it. And then we're all
sitting on pins and needles waiting for
that retracted message to come in. We're
wondering, "What is the sticky note
going to say?" And then it gets there
and it says, "Look in the upper left
corner." Or like I said, it could use
reverse psychology and say, "Don't look
in the upper left corner." And then the
scavenger hunt proceeds as it normally
would. I've used this exact reel and
this style reel multiple times and it
hits every single time. Idea number
three is the you thought that was going
to hit me reel. The setup for this reel
is that there are two people on the
screen. There is you and then there's
someone who's throwing something at you,
whether it's a snowball, a cardboard
box, a basketball, whatever it may be.
But then right before it hits you, the
video cuts to a close-up and you're
maybe squinting or acting like it's
about to hit you, but it doesn't. And
then you can address that. You can say
directly to the camera, "I bet you're
waiting for that box to hit you." Well,
I'm waiting for you to dot dot dot, and
you can finish that sentence. Now, there
have been some funny versions of this
because this trend has been around for a
while where people will say, "I bet
you're waiting for that box to hit me."
And then as they're saying that, they
get hit with the box. Or you could say,
"I bet you're waiting for that snowball
to hit me." Well, I'm waiting for you to
sign up for my email and then they get
hit by the snowball, right? And then
maybe they keep getting pelted with the
snowballs and it becomes like a funny
play on our expectations, but the gist
of the reel is that you build up
someone's expectations where they think
that you're going to get hit by whatever
the thing is, and then either you don't
get hit or you don't get hit right away.
Idea number four is the I'm already
there reel, and it uses the song I'm
Already There by Lonestar. In this song,
there's a pause and then the singer
sings, "I'm already there." So, the way
that you are going to use this reel is
you're going to add some text on the
screen that says, "When a client or a
customer or whatever it is that you use
to describe your audience, or you could
even say when someone says, "Go to
hell." And then the text says, "But
you're already a small business owner
trying to grow on Instagram in 2026."
Or, "But you own a bakery and it's the
holidays." Or, "But you're a mom who
owns a small business and it's the first
week of summer." So, the joke is that
someone is telling you to go to hell,
but because of your circumstances or
what you do for a living, you're saying,
"I'm already there." It's funny, it's
self-deprecating, and it's very easy to
do. Idea number five is the magic
notebook. For this, you're going to need
a notebook, a string, and a large
marker. The video is going to begin with
you dragging the string under the
marker, which implies that you are
putting the ink on the string. Then, you
lay the string out on the pages and you
close the notebook. You can tap it with
a magic wand or pat it or do whatever
you want to make it unique and make it
your own, and then you pull the string
out from the notebook. And what you're
setting up is that there's going to be
some magic trick that the ink on the
string is going to spell out some word
or draw some picture or whatever. And
then when you open up the notebook,
you're revealing something that you have
already written. Maybe it's a call to
action for your course that you're
selling. Maybe it is a quick tip. Maybe
it's an unpopular opinion. You can write
whatever you want. But again, you're
just playing with people's expectations.
They know that obviously the string did
not write those words. So, that's even
an added layer of the humor. But once
the words are revealed, they've already
watched your entire video. Retention is
at 100% and they're more likely to
engage because of that. As someone who
cooks about 95% of their meals at home,
and no, that's not an exaggeration,
usually the only meal that Tay and I eat
out each week is our sushi Saturday.
What we eat, what we prepare, it matters
a lot to us. And that's why I'm so
excited to introduce you to our newest
sponsor, HelloFresh. HelloFresh allows
you to choose between more than 100
recipes every single week, including
cuisines from all around the world, and
bigger portions that satisfy everyone.
Over 35 of those weekly recipes are
high-protein recipes, which fires me up,
and it allows me to feel great because I
know that I'm eating wholesome
ingredients like sustainably sourced
seafood and 100%
antibiotic-and-hormone-free
chicken. And of course, most important
of all is how it tastes, and let me tell
you, it actually tastes really good.
This helps me be a better business owner
because I'm able to eat meals that taste
good and help me feel satisfied. I don't
have to spend as much time thinking or
prepping each meal, and I can make sure
that I'm hitting my protein goals in the
process. Go to hellofresh.com/byt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a free
Zwilling knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. Idea number six is the
PlayStation sped-up reel. For this reel,
you're going to set up your phone on a
tripod or have someone hold it, and then
you're going to run at least 20 or 30 ft
if not 20 or 30 yards away, and then
slowly you're going to jog or take
overly dramatic steps towards the
camera. And while doing this, ideally
you're holding up a big sign, so people
can see there's some sort of message,
something that you're waiting to show us
that we can't quite read yet cuz you're
too far away, and so we want you to get
closer. But then you overlay this
PlayStation style graphic on top, and it
informs people to hold down a specific
button, thus fast-forwarding the reel so
that you can get closer to the camera,
and thus they can read the message
faster. Now, what's really going on here
is that anytime you hold down on the
right side of the screen, it speeds up
the video. But because you've put this
little graphic, it makes it look like
there is a button on the screen, and so
people are more inclined to press and
hold down on said button.
If you want the overlay, the PlayStation
graphic that you can add to your reel,
DM me on Instagram. My Instagram
username is brock11johnson. Just send me
a direct message with the word
PlayStation, all one word, PlayStation.
Send me that word, and I will send you
the link to the graphic for free. Idea
number seven is reaction videos.
Reaction videos are super popular, and
they're very, very easy to do, and all
you have to do is find an already
existing viral or popular video that
relates to your niche, and green screen
yourself on top of it. Give your
reaction, give your two cents. Make sure
you're actually adding something to the
video. Don't just stand there and be
like
pointing at it, but actually add
something, make it unique, make it
novel, give your two cents, give your
hot take, give why you agree or
disagree. But these sort of
reaction-style videos are taking these
existing viral videos that have already
been proven to get a lot of views and
engagement, and they're just
extrapolating that. They're adding your
own two cents, and so they're likely to
do well for you as well. Idea number
eight is my all-time favorite, what I
like to call my award reel. The award
reel is quite simply holding up your
hands, and then in your hands you can
digitally impose a trophy, like an emoji
of a trophy, or you can literally hold
up a trophy if you have a trophy nearby
or in your home. And then you just save
that video to your device, and then you
can reuse it over and over and over
again, and just change the text on the
top of the screen to present the award
to a different group. I do one of these
Reels at least once a month, if not
multiple times a month, because they're
so easy, and nine times out of 10, they
are outliers in terms of performance.
And what I mean by that is that nine
times out of 10, they are my
best-performing Reels for that month.
So, I want you to create one for
yourself right now. Literally, pause
this episode, put your phone on a nearby
windowsill or bookshelf or something,
and just take a 10-second video of
yourself looking at the camera,
and holding up your hands like this.
Then open CapCut or Edits or whatever,
put an emoji of a trophy where your
hands are, and boom, you're done. Save
that to your device, put it in some
special folder or favorite it so that
you never lose it, and then every couple
of weeks, you can reuse that clip,
change what the text says at the top of
the screen, and you're good to go. Idea
number nine is the crying Reel. Now,
this one is going to take you getting a
little bit emotional. Maybe you can make
yourself fake cry. Maybe your eyes are
going to be red from allergies, and
you're just going to take advantage of
that. Maybe you're going to rub your
eyes, and you're going to intentionally
irritate them for the sake of this
video, or maybe you're just going to
find a filter on Instagram, Snapchat, or
TikTok that makes you look like you're
crying. But, very similar to the award
Reel, I just want you to take a quick
video of yourself looking sad and
crying, and then save that to your
device. And then you can reuse that
every couple of weeks or every couple of
months, and add some sad, soppy
background audio onto it, and label why
you might be crying. Maybe it's a funny
thing, maybe it's a sarcastic thing,
maybe it's a serious thing, but now you
have this clip that is very emotional
and that you can use over and over
again. Idea number 10 is the fake
apology Reel. One of the most viral and
attention-grabbing styles of content on
all of social media are apology videos.
And so, what people have figured out is
that you can do a fake apology, and it
grabs attention as well. Now, I want you
to be careful with this one because
there are some audiences and some
audience members who will be off-put or
annoyed, or they might even unfollow you
for doing this style of real. So, know
your audience. If they are easily
offended, maybe you don't do a fake
apology video. But, if you have an
audience that expects you to be a little
bit funny and goofy and silly, and they
don't take themselves too seriously,
well, then by all means, you could
absolutely crush it with a fake apology
video. Idea number 11 is the emoji
puzzle. Essentially, you just add some
text onto the screen that says, "Read
the first letter of each emoji." And
then, you use emojis to spell out some
sort of message. The message could be a
quick tip. It could be a hot take. It
could be the beginning of a story, or it
could be a call to action. One thing
that I like to do is I like to use the
emoji puzzle and create a scavenger hunt
with it. So, my text might say, "Read
the first letter of each emoji." And
once they do, it reveals a message that
says, "Read the top-right corner." Or,
"Read the pinned comment." Or, it just
might be a direct call to action that
says, "Comment the word guide." Or,
"Comment the word send." And then,
because they've already decoded this
puzzle, they're already in the game. And
this gamification increases the
likelihood that they take action. Idea
number 12 is the classic dude with a
sign. This is made popular by Dude With
a Sign on Instagram. There are many
copycats now. There's also Dude At With
a Sign. And there's nothing stopping you
from becoming your own dude or dudette
with a sign. Just grab a big piece of
cardboard. We all know that we have some
leftover Amazon delivery boxes laying
around. Write a message, a call to
action, a hot take, a unpopular opinion,
whatever it may be, on your piece of
cardboard, and then go out and record a
video of yourself on the street holding
up the sign. Now, pro tip, when you do
this, it can actually be advantageous to
record a video of yourself holding up a
blank sign. And then, what you can do is
you can use Canva or use some AI tool to
digitally write the words on that
cardboard. That way, you don't have to
have multiple pieces of cardboard or
film yourself multiple different times
holding multiple different signs. You
can just take one video of yourself
holding up that cardboard sign, and then
you have this reusable template where
you can just change out the text on the
cardboard or what the Sharpie would have
been written on the cardboard saying,
and you have possibly an infinite amount
of content from this one video. Back in
2016, when I started my first real
online business, I remember that my head
was filled with so many what ifs. What
if no one buys this? What if I'm an
impostor? What if there's no market?
What if I can't sell? What if what if
what if? What if this is all just a big
waste of time and I'm just banging my
head against the wall. But, what I wish
someone told me back then is, just like
you can imagine all the negative what
ifs, there are just as many, if not
more, positive what ifs. What if this
works out? What if this is my
breakthrough? What if this is what sets
me financially free? And thanks to one
of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world,
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks, from
inventory to payments to analytics, all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools. You can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those what
ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f .com/tribe.
Idea number 13 is a hook swap. And this
one is called the rainy keyboard hook
swap. The original video was created by
Pablo Roche or Rochad or I'm I'm not
sure how to say his name and I was
raised in the American education system,
so I'm sorry. Don't blame me, blame the
US government. But however you say his
name, he's an awesome content creator.
He's got over a million followers on
Instagram. You should definitely check
him out. But he created this viral video
where he put a wireless keyboard in a
plastic bag outside in the rain and then
he filmed a video showing what the rain
is typing. Each raindrop is hitting a
key and that key is being recorded on
his computer. Well, you can use this
intro, you can use this hook and
seamlessly swap into your own video.
Where instead of the second half of the
video being his random keys on his
computer, a message being typed out on
your computer. In order to do this
yourself, what you want to do is open a
new document on your computer. Then make
it full screen. Then start a screen
recording on your computer of the entire
computer screen. And while that screen
recording's going, start by typing a few
random keys. Then type out the message
that you want people to hear. Again,
like I've said so many times today, that
message could be a hot take, an
unpopular opinion, it could be a quick
tip, it could be a story, it could be a
call to action, or it could be the
beginning of some sort of scavenger
hunt. You can have it say whatever you
want. Then once you're done typing that
thing, stop the screen recording.
Then grab your phone or your camera or
whatever you you on and record a video
of yourself panning from a window or
curtain to your computer while that
screen recording is playing. Then just
add the rainy keyboard hook on the
beginning, seamlessly match cut into
your video, and you'll have a very
strong hook that grabs people's
attention and increases the likelihood
that they take action. If you want, I
actually have a free library of over 40
of these hook swap videos, and all you
have to do to get access to them is DM
me on Instagram with the word swap, s w
a p, and I'll send you all 40 of those
right there in the DMs, and you can use
those in your future videos. But idea
number 14 is also a hook swap video, and
this one is what I like to call the butt
plug POV. The hook for this hook swap
video is someone holding an Insta360
that has been duct-taped to a butt plug,
and then it cuts to what would
theoretically be the point of view of a
Insta360 duct-taped to a butt plug. In
order to actually achieve this for
yourself, after you have that hook,
after you have that funny clip, all you
have to do is have someone follow you
around doing whatever it is you do
that's relating to your niche. Maybe
you're in the kitchen baking, or maybe
you are rock climbing, or maybe you are
snowboarding, whatever it may be, and
just have them follow you around with
your camera or your phone with a
wide-angle lens. The wide angle is
really key for this effect. But just
have them put the camera right down
there below your tailbone and follow you
around for a few seconds. It's
hilarious, it grabs attention, it makes
people go, "Oh my gosh, did they really
just do that?" And once you have their
attention, you could then use their
attention to, like I've said a million
times, deliver a message, share share a
hot take, tell a story, or have a call
to action. Second-to-last, idea number
15 is an outro swap, where you have the
hook, you record yourself doing the
first few seconds, and the outro of the
video, or the rest of the video, the
ending of the video, is the same. And
this one is the planetary every time
swap. So, all you have to do is record a
B-roll clip of yourself, again, a clip
that relates to your niche or whatever
it is that you do on Instagram, and add
some text on the screen that says,
quote, "Plant a tree every time you
." And then include
some sort of text that is something that
people want or something that people
never do in your niche. So, plant a tree
every time you get the recipe right on
the first try. Plant a tree every time
you land a trick. Plant a tree every
time one of your Reels goes viral.
That's the one that I did. And then it
swaps into a video of the desert. So,
there's no trees being planted, and so
the joke is that you didn't plant any
trees because you never did the thing in
the intro. And then last but not least,
the 16th idea is the coffee pour hidden
message trend. This one is probably the
one that's the most complicated and is
going to require the most work. I know
for me it took quite a few attempts.
What you want to do is to get a mug
that's filled with some kind of milk.
And then get a second glass that either
has some espresso in it or it has some
matcha or just has a liquid of a
different color.
What you're then going to do is record a
video overhead of yourself pouring the
second cup into the first one. So, the
first cup is going to go from pure white
to green if it's matcha, brown if it's
coffee, whatever it may be. The first
part of the sentence is going to match
the color of whatever color the drink
ends up looking like. So, if it's a
matcha, it ends up looking green. At the
beginning of the video, the first part
of the sentence is green, but it's on
the solid white milk, and so you can
read it. But then you make the second
half of the sentence match the color of
the drink at the beginning of the reel.
So, the second half of the sentence is
probably going to be some shade of white
to match your milk. That way, when you
pour in the matcha or the espresso or
whatever, and the drink changes colors,
the white, which was the original color,
is now revealed as the second half of
the sentence. It's really creative. I
know it sounds complex, but once you
play around with it, I bet it will
actually be easier than you may think.
And this sort of magic trick, or
revealing words, is a really, really
powerful way to increase your audience's
retention, engagement, and views. I know
in today's episode I gave you 16 fish,
but I don't want you to feel overwhelmed
with eating all 16 fish at the same
time. Just pick one. Pick one idea that
I shared with you today, implement it,
and send it to me on Instagram
afterwards so that I can cheer you on
and tell you how horrible of a job you
did. I'm just kidding. I'll probably
tell you how awesome of a job you did.
Thank you so much for watching. Don't
forget to subscribe. I'll see you next
week, and as always, happy networking.
>> [music]